hello everyone my name is Andre Cruz I'm
Sarah's our on grab on Twitter and I'm
going to give you a quick demo on
identity management nom use so really
quickly identity manager is an identity
wallet specification and that really
embraces open standards in this case
really really are embracing the IDS or
for for long the centralized identifiers
and also verifiable credentials but at
the same thing that we are seeing today
is that I'll to throw the IDs and verify
the credentials are mean to be
interoperable what we are seeing today
is like login buttons such as continue
with your port
continuing with blog stack continuing
with telecom which is very similar to
what we already have today with sign-in
with Google Twitter get up and stuff
like that so what is means for
developers is that they need to use
different SDKs to integrate into their
websites which is really you know not
ideal because the underlying technology
is meant to be standard in trouble also
and as a consequence what happened is
that because developers like like time
they end up taking shortcuts as just
implements a few of those and me as a
developer I need to really create
different identities there are
conceptually the same but have different
IDs so when I'm like replicating the my
data like my name and my avatar and
stuff like that in all those div
mechanisms and in all those wallets as
well so what Identity Manager aims to be
is to be a unified entity wallet that
aims to support multiple the IDs and the
other methods as well so let me just
quickly showcase IBM so in amuse so we
have here very early early draft version
of nominees which has some features that
I want to show you
so the first screen that you you see
here is the setup blocker screen you
need to do this because everything
within a wallet is encrypted so you must
choose a passphrase but you want to in
the future want to support other lock
types such as your touch
the feature within your MacBook Pro or
even 500 SV devices as well
so let's just put a password here and
continue and of course you need to
choose the idle timer so that it locks
again after you I linked for some time
so let's try to create an identity ask
let's start create a unity right now so
you just choose what type identity you
are a person or an organization or other
why is there other well because even
your cat or your dog should have an
identity because your dog has vaccines
and stuff like that that you want to
keep accelerated to to to your your pet
basically so let's continue and let's
choose like type my name here should
have follow as well really quickly so
continue and now you are setting up your
device name you need to do that because
in IDM you have like your identity and
you can have multiple devices associated
with it because the reality is is that
you use your device use multiple device
in now that I so use your laptop your
desktop your mobile phone and stuff like
that so you need to import your identity
I'll be able to import your identity in
multiple devices so what's happening now
is that IDM right now supports the atom
the IP ID the ID method as its first the
ID method but we want when to support
others but right now it's creating an IP
NS record and also as the ID document
and type NS record points to that e ID
documents and we fully quickly check
that the ID document and its context
content so right now we have like this
variable called IDM wallet which is
exposed just for development and in this
case for just for this demo and we have
like identities list and let's just
access the first identity and get it's
the ID so this is my decentralise
identifier and if I take that and try to
resolve it
- ideally documents so it will be did
MDOT resolve and string and let's
actually avoid for it because it's a
promise we got the idea document rights
and what you see here is that I have two
public keys because the ID documents
essentially have an array of public keys
that you can change over time and in
this case I have my master key which is
the IP NS key and also I have my device
this device key in my D ID document
right and also it's important to mention
that you have this key device key in an
authentication array meaning that this
device can be used for authentication so
let's quickly back up my identity so for
now we just have demonic backup but you
want to want to support other more user
friendly backup processes but for now
let's just go to rhythm mnemonic so I'm
going to copy that
oh I forgot to copy so copy to clipboard
and just put it there for now and go
through so I need to select the tenth
words so dragon I guess and the third
word will be fish right and let's
continue so yeah - it is secure it means
that my master key was removed from this
wallet and I'm able to recover it by
using that minim onic so to actually
show you that Nam use is just user
interface for the IDM specification in
wallet I can now use this mini Manik
which is here going to copy it and we
have here a very rough version of
another wallet that uses IDM and I'm
going to try to import it here so let's
see how fast it is it can take some time
we don't have like any feedback so it
probably will take like five seconds or
something if the network helps
all right let's wait a bit
so it's resolving IP NS records already
so now it's kind of replicating
replicating the stuff that I have my
other device to to this device as you
can see it already finished it finish it
and I have my identity there with my
photo so the funny thing is that because
these wallets are being replicated I can
just edit my profile and things kind of
sync seamlessly so if I put Portuguese
and my gender and you know location
because I'm in Spain right now I'm gonna
put Spain and save it and if you go to
the other wallet as you can see it
already replicated really fast so and
actually at the moment if I was to
resolve that Eid document again we will
see another public key there right so if
I resolve it again it takes some time
yes yeah sorry there as you can see it
has three public keys now because the
water wallet generated a new device key
which was imported into your GID
document that's very important because
now both devices can be used for the
idea tenth occasion and signing and
stuff like that so let's quickly now
jump to two features of IDM which is be
able to authenticate to an it up and
also to sign any any data that app needs
to sign so we have like this very drafty
example shut up that we set up just to
demonstrate its capabilities really so
if I type something first of course I
need to login and I need to unlock my
screen the wallet and if I if I accept
like my this app this shuttle app is
asking me to send my personal details
and my so so close so if I if I accept
I'm now logged in and what happened is
that the wallet created a session
between between the
up and the wallet itself and each
session is unique it has a unique ID and
also if I open the session object you
see that the identity the ID there and
also the profile details which is a
schema.org person object in my case with
the details that I've filled before so
now I can type messages in the shot and
as you can see here you have like a
check mark it means that I produced a
signature that was validated against the
DLA document keys public key is one of
them so let me try to explain what
happened so whenever I type that message
the application is generated like this
JSON object that that is associated with
this shot message it has like an author
it has like a signature a text and a
timestamp and the most important part is
the signature so let me just get more
space for you to see so the signature
itself has Adi Adi to RL there and if
you look at it it's just my D ID and the
fragment pointing to the public key that
was used to sign but because I used the
session key to sign it's not it was not
sign with my device private key directly
but instead with a Shia key which is
basically we call that the session key
so session keys are child keys off of
the devices keys and to to derive those
session keys you take this key path here
which uses VIP 32 in order to get it and
then you just need to check the
signature that is on the value field
against the message store in the
original message that are produced right
so if you don't look at it we have like
signing without anything we know without
prompting the user at all right so this
is all happening end of the road the
trade-off here is that session keys are
not while they are not stored or seen by
the app it's stored on the wallet in
plain in plain raw text this means that
they are they aren't unencrypted so this
means that for use cases such as
messages it's fine
but if you need more security you can
ask to sign with your device key and to
sign with your device key we have like
an easter egg in this example shut up if
you type like something that contains IP
Affairs in this case I'm going to type I
love at the FS it will actually prompt
to sign right with your device key and
because the device key is encrypted I
need to put my passphrase there so what
you see is like screen okay something is
wrong with with the scroll bars but just
ignore it what you see is like the the
no means wallet sort in this case the
IDM is asking me to authorize the
signature and as you can see you you get
the comment there the timestamp so I'm
going to sign it and if I accept the see
the same kind of signature was produced
but that's the only difference is that
the key part is actually the root path
so it means that there is no need to
derive the key because the device
private key was directly used to sign so
as you can see we already have these
features which is very useful for DUP
developers so basically you can have
authentication you can have signing
either with your session keys either you
are with your device keys and all of
this is using the IDs and verifiable
credentials so in the future we m2 as I
said we am to support more data methods
and they will be added over time and
also we are very closely following open
standards such as the ID out for
instance and also the credential another
handler API which are very nice upcoming
API is that we can use in the future
and lastly let me just show quickly a
website that we made for for you to
check and know more about the project so
we have like Nam just go to Nam use that
I know we have like this cool website
that you where you can read and know
more about the projects and if you are
interested you can actually join our
mailing list will be sending be sending
like an email each month with updates
that we have for the project or even if
you are interested in contributing or
even you
using it in a project just subscribe and
you will get in touch with you and I
think that's all and thank you